OSDOCS-9882-installer: Bug batched the installer bugs (#77669)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.adoc

* Previously, if the installation program failed to gather logs from the bootstrap due to an SSH connection issue, it would also not provide virtual machine (VM) serial console logs even if they were collected. With this release, the installation program provides VM serial console logs even if the SSH connection to the bootstrap machine fails. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-30774[*OCPBUGS-30774*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {vmw-full} with static IP addresses, the cluster could create control plane machines without static IP addresses due to a conflict with other Technology Preview features. With this release, the Control Plane Machine Set Operator correctly manages the static IP assignment for control plane machines. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-29114[*OCPBUGS-29114*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-short} with user-provided DNS, the installation program still attempted to validate DNS within the {gcp-short} DNS network. With this release, the installation program does not perform this validation for user-provided DNS. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-29068[*OCPBUGS-29068*])

> * Previously, when deleting a private cluster on {ibm-cloud-name} that used the same domain name as a non-private {ibm-cloud-name} cluster, some resources were not deleted. With this release, all private cluster resources are deleted when the cluster is destroyed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28870[*OCPBUGS-28870*])

Reviewer: There might be an alternate word for 'destroy', per the ISG. Perhaps `remove` or 'when the cluster is taken down`?
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#d

Author: :heavy_check_mark: . Went with "removed".

* Previously, when installing a cluster using a proxy with a character string using "%" in the configuration string, the cluster installation fails. With this release, the installation program correctly validates proxy configuration strings containing "%". (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27965[*OCPBUGS-27965*])

* Previously, the installation program still allowed the use of the `OpenShiftSDN` network plugin even though it was removed. With this release, the installation program correctly prevents installing a cluster with this network plugin. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27813[*OCPBUGS-27813*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on AWS Wavelengths or Local Zones into a region that supports either Wavelengths or Local Zones, but not both, the installation failed. With this release, installations into regions that support either Wavelengths or Local Zones can succeed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27737[*OCPBUGS-27737*])

> * Previously, when a cluster installation was attempted using the same cluster name and base domain as an existing cluster, and the installation failed due to DNS record set conflicts, destroying the second cluster would also destroy the DNS record sets in the original cluster. With this release, the stored metadata contains the private zone name rather than the cluster domain, so only the correct DNS records are deleted upon cluster destruction. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27156[*OCPBUGS-27156*])

Reviewer: Same comment as the previous one for `destroy`.
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#d

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, platform specific passwords that were configured in the installation configuration file of an Agent-based installation could be present in the output of the `agent-gather` command.  With this release, passwords are redacted from the `agent-gather` output. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-26434[*OCPBUGS-26434*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, platform specific passwords that were configured in the installation configuration file of an Agent-based installation could be present in the output of the `agent-gather` command. With this release, passwords are redacted from the `agent-gather` output. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-26434[*OCPBUGS-26434*])
```
Removed extra space.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, a {product-title} cluster installed with version 4.15 or 4.16 showed a default upgrade channel of version 4.14. With this release, clusters have the correct upgrade channel after installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-26048[*OCPBUGS-26048*])

> * Previously, when deleting a {vmw-full}e cluster, some `TagCategory` objects failed to be deleted. With this release, all cluster-related objects are correctly deleted when the cluster is destroyed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25841[*OCPBUGS-25841*])

Reviewer: Same comment for `destroy`.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, when specifying the `baremetal` platform type but disabling the `baremetal` capability in `install-config.yaml`, the installation would fail after a long timeout without a helpful error. With this release, the installation program provides a descriptive error and does not attempt a bare metal installation if the `baremetal` capability is disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25835[*OCPBUGS-25835*])

> * Previously, installations on {vmw-full} using the assisted installer could fail by preventing {vmw-full} from initializing nodes correctly. With this release, assisted installations on {vmw-full} successfully complete with all nodes initialized. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25718[*OCPBUGS-25718*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, installations on {vmw-full} using the Assisted Installer could fail by preventing {vmw-full} from initializing nodes correctly. With this release, assisted installations on {vmw-full} successfully complete with all nodes initialized. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25718[*OCPBUGS-25718*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, setting an architecture different from the one supported by the instance type would result in the installation failing mid-process, after some resources were created. With this release, a validation check will ensure that the instance type is compatible with the specified architecture. If the architecture is not compatible, the process will fail before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24575[*OCPBUGS-24575*])

* Previously, the installation program would not prevent a user from installing a cluster on a cloud provider with the Cloud Controller Manager disabled, which would fail without a helpful error message. With this release, the installation program produces an error informing the user that the Cloud Controller Manager capability is required for installations on cloud platforms. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24415[*OCPBUGS-24415*])

> * Previously, the installation program could fail to destroy a cluster installed on {ibm-cloud-name} due to unexpected results from the {ibm-cloud-name} API. With this release, clusters installed on {ibm-cloud-name} can reliably be deleted by the installation program. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20085[*OCPBUGS-20085*])

Reviewer: Same comment for `destroy`.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

[id="ocp-4-16-installer-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Installer

> * Previously, when attempting to install a three node cluster on {gcp-first} with an invalid configuration, the installation would fail with a panic error that did not report the reason for the failure. With this release, the installation program validates the installation configuration to successfully install a three node cluster on {gcp-short}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35103[*OCPBUGS-35103*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, installations of a three node cluster on {gcp-first} with an invalid configuration failed with a panic error that did not report the reason for the failure. With this release, the installation program validates the installation configuration to successfully install a three node cluster on {gcp-short}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35103[*OCPBUGS-35103*])
```
minimalism note

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, platform specific passwords that were configured in the installation configuration file of an Agent-based installation could be present in the output of the `agent-gather` command. With this release, passwords are redacted from the `agent-gather` output. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-26434[*OCPBUGS-26434*])

* Previously, a {product-title} cluster installed with version 4.15 or 4.16 showed a default upgrade channel of version 4.14. With this release, clusters have the correct upgrade channel after installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-26048[*OCPBUGS-26048*])

* Previously, when deleting a {vmw-full} cluster, some `TagCategory` objects failed to be deleted. With this release, all cluster-related objects are correctly deleted when the cluster is removed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25841[*OCPBUGS-25841*])

> * Previously, when specifying the `baremetal` platform type but disabling the `baremetal` capability in `install-config.yaml`, the installation would fail after a long timeout without a helpful error. With this release, the installation program provides a descriptive error and does not attempt a bare metal installation if the `baremetal` capability is disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25835[*OCPBUGS-25835*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when specifying the `baremetal` platform type but disabling the `baremetal` capability in `install-config.yaml`, the installation failed after a long timeout without a helpful error. With this release, the installation program provides a descriptive error and does not attempt a bare metal installation if the `baremetal` capability is disabled. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25835[*OCPBUGS-25835*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, if a VM type was selected that did not match the architecture specified in the `install-config.yaml` file, the installation would fail. With this release, a validation check ensures that the architectures match before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25600[*OCPBUGS-25600*])

* Previously, agent-based installations could fail if an invalid number of control plane replicas was specified, such as 2. With this release, the installation program enforces the requirement of specifying either 1 or 3 control plane replicas for agent-based installations. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25462[*OCPBUGS-25462*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {vmw-full} using the control plane machine set Technology Preview feature, the resulting control plane machine sets had duplicate failure domains in their configuration. With this release, the installation program creates the control plane machine sets with the correct failure domains. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25453[*OCPBUGS-25453*])

> * Previously, the required `iam:TagInstanceProfile` permission would not be validated before an installer-provisioned installation, causing an installation to fail if the Identity and Access Management (IAM) permission was missing. With this release, a validation check ensures that the permission is included before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25440[*OCPBUGS-25440*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the required `iam:TagInstanceProfile` permission was not validated before an installer-provisioned installation, causing an installation to fail if the Identity and Access Management (IAM) permission was missing. With this release, a validation check ensures that the permission is included before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25440[*OCPBUGS-25440*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, the installation program did not prevent users from installing a cluster on non-bare-metal platforms with the Cloud Credential capability disabled, although it is required. With this release, the installation program produces an error and prevents installation with the Cloud Credential capability disabled, except for on the bare-metal platform. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24956[*OCPBUGS-24956*])

> * Previously, setting an architecture different from the one supported by the instance type would result in the installation failing mid-process, after some resources were created. With this release, a validation check will ensure that the instance type is compatible with the specified architecture. If the architecture is not compatible, the process will fail before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24575[*OCPBUGS-24575*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, setting an architecture different from the one supported by the instance type resulted in the installation failing mid-process, after some resources were created. With this release, a validation check verifies that the instance type is compatible with the specified architecture. If the architecture is not compatible, the process fails before the installation begins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24575[*OCPBUGS-24575*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, the installation program would not prevent a user from installing a cluster on a cloud provider with the Cloud Controller Manager disabled, which would fail without a helpful error message. With this release, the installation program produces an error informing the user that the Cloud Controller Manager capability is required for installations on cloud platforms. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24415[*OCPBUGS-24415*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the installation program did not prevent a user from installing a cluster on a cloud provider with the Cloud Controller Manager disabled, which failed without a helpful error message. With this release, the installation program produces an error stating that the Cloud Controller Manager capability is required for installations on cloud platforms. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24415[*OCPBUGS-24415*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, if a pod selected by an `EgressIP` through a secondary interface had its label removed, another pod in the same namespace would also lose its `EgressIP` assignment, breaking its connection to the external host. With this release, the issue is fixed, so that when a pod label is removed and it stops using the `EgressIP`, other pods with the matching label continue to use the `EgressIP` without interruption. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20220[*OCPBUGS-20220*])

> * Previously, `EgressIP` pods hosted by a secondary interface would not failover because of a race condition. Users would receive an error message indicating that the `EgressIP` pod could not be assigned because it conflicted with an existing IP address. With this release, the `EgressIP` pod moves to an egress node. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20209[*OCPBUGS-20209*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, `EgressIP` pods hosted by a secondary interface did not failover because of a race condition. Users would receive an error message indicating that the `EgressIP` pod could not be assigned because it conflicted with an existing IP address. With this release, the `EgressIP` pod moves to an egress node. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20209[*OCPBUGS-20209*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

* Previously, when a MAC address changed on the physical interface being used by OVN-Kubernetes, it would not be updated correctly within OVN-Kubernetes and could cause traffic disruption and Kube API outages from the node for a prolonged period of time. This was most common when a bond interface was being used, where the MAC address of the bond might swap depending on which device was the first to come up. With this release, the issues if fixed so that OVN-Kubernetes dynamically detects MAC address changes and updates it correctly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-18716[*OCPBUGS-18716*])

> * Previously, the global navigation satellite system (GNSS) module was capable of reporting both the GPS `fix` position and the GNSS `offset` position, which represents the offset between the GNSS module and the constellations. The previous T-GM did not use the `ubloxtool` CLI tool to probe the `ublox` module for reading `offset` and `fix` positions. Instead, it could only read the GPS `fix` information via GPSD. The reason for this was that the previous implementation of the `ubloxtool` CLI tool took two seconds to receive a response, and with every call it increased CPU usage by threefold. With this release, the `ubloxtool` request is now optimized, and the GPS `offset` position is now available. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-17422[*OCPBUGS-17422*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the global navigation satellite system (GNSS) module was capable of reporting both the GPS `fix` position and the GNSS `offset` position, which represents the offset between the GNSS module and the constellations. The previous T-GM did not use the `ubloxtool` CLI tool to probe the `ublox` module for reading `offset` and `fix` positions. Instead, it could only read the GPS `fix` information via GPSD. The reason for this was that the previous implementation of the `ubloxtool` CLI tool took 2 seconds to receive a response, and with every call it increased CPU usage by threefold. With this release, the `ubloxtool` request is now optimized, and the GPS `offset` position is now available. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-17422[*OCPBUGS-17422*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
